doc/admin: monorepo (#9689)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/admin/monorepo.md

# Using Sourcegraph with a monorepo

> Sourcegraph can be used on git [monorepos](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com/monorepos/) and provides functionality that developers may be missing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph can be used on Git [monorepos](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com/monorepos/) and provides functionality that developers may be missing:
```

- Indexed code search across projects in the monorepo.
- Code intelligence across projects in the monorepo.

> This functionality may be missing since the tools on a developers machines often can't cope with the scale of a monorepo. Normally a developer can't load the whole monorepo into your IDE losing functionality useful when doing cross-project work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality may be missing since the tools on a developer's machine often can't cope with the scale of a monorepo. That means a developer can't load the whole monorepo into the IDE and therefore has to cope with doing without code exploration functionality useful when doing cross-project work.
```

> ## Scale/performance concerns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Scale and performance

Sourcegraph is designed to scale to large monorepos, even when local Git operations and other code search tools become slow.
```

> Sourcegraph ships with the standard git binary to interact with repositories. Commands like `git rev-parse` and `git show` are called when rendering a page for a user. Operations which scale with the total number of files are left to background indexing jobs. Operations which scale with the total number of commits or refs/tags can be in the user path. These operations use pagination to avoid the scale concerns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph uses the standard `git` binary to interact with repositories, but structures its use of `git` to ensure that user requests remain fast. Commands like `git rev-parse` and `git show` are called when rendering a page for a user. Git operations that scale with the total number of files are left to background indexing jobs. Operations that scale with the total number of commits or refs/tags may be in the user path, but these operations use pagination to remain fast.
```

> Our indexed search scales by the number of files so has no particular concerns due to monorepos. Sourcegraph has been used to index large monorepos as well as tens of thousands of smaller repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph's code search index scales horizontally with the number of files being indexed for search. Multiple shards may be allocated for one repository, and the index is agnostic to whether the code exists in one massive repository or many smaller ones. Sourcegraph has been used to index both large monorepos and tens of thousands of smaller repositories.
```

> <!-- TODO code intelligence LSIF -->

Author: @creachadair @efritz I'm not sure the current state of LSIF + monorepos, so I've left this TODO in.

## Custom git binaries

> Sourcegraph clones code from your code host via the usual `git clone` or `git fetch` commands. Some organisations use custom `git` binaries or commands to speed up these operations. Sourcegraph supports using alternative git binaries to allow cloning. This can be done by inheriting from the `gitserver` docker image and installing the custom `git` onto the `$PATH`.

Reviewer: Worth mentioning the custom git fetch command option that @uwedeportivo added for customers like https://app.hubspot.com/contacts/2762526/company/554275594?

<!-- More TODOs

> - [ ] Usage of Sourcegraph with git submodules or sub-trees (how do these appear in the UI/in searches?)

Author: I don't think we do anything special here, and I am unsure how to word it in the context of monorepos.

> - [ ] git-meta

Author: I'm unfamiliar with this tool. @dadlerj maybe you can elaborate?

> - [ ] Massive numbers of branches

Author: @uwedeportivo what are the things we did for the customer that has this problem?

Reviewer 2: the two things we did for one of the customers with monorepo (that i'm aware of) are:

- ability to specify a custom git command/binary for fetch (because some customers with monorepo have special git binaries that more efficiently handle the size)
- we temporarily did USE_ENHANCED_LANGUAGE_DETECTION=false until we fix that part

> - [ ] UI tweaks (e.g., "can we customize the search scopes to show submodules or branches instead of repos?")

Author: another thing I am unsure what we provide.
